# Async assignment 3

- Selfish Mining (SM) is a strategic mining algorithm that demonstrates that the prescribed protocol is not an equilibrium for minority miners in general. 
- Let’s see the mechanics of Selfish Mining, and then discuss when and why it works.
- Initially, the selfish miner tries to extend the longest chain, as she’s supposed to. 
- However, once she generated a block, she keeps it secret rather than publishing it, and then tries to extend it further, forming a secret branch.


- Meanwhile, the other miners extend the public chain, which will eventually become longer (with probability 1) since they are the majority.
- The selfish miner continues to extend her secret branch until the public chain is one step behind. Then she publishes her secret chain.
- Since the secret chain is longer, the other parties consider it the main chain, so now everyone is following the selfish miner’s blocks. The blocks generated by the other miners are thus pruned - ignored and confer no reward to their creators.
- But there is a caveat to this strategy - when first forming her secret chain, the selfish miner takes a risk. If she generated the first secret block and then another miner generated a block, she cannot publish her secret block and have the longest chain; instead, it will be a race between two branches of length one.

- The selfish miner will try to extend her own branch, and for simplicity let us assume that all other miners will try to extend the other branch. If she wins she publishes her block, which is the longest chain, and the attack restarts at the end of this longest chain. If the other miners win, the selfish miner is at a disadvantage (shorter branch). In this case she gives up the attack attempt and starts again. She gains no revenue from her pruned formerly-secret block.